Chou 
Junod, “Falling Man”


1. The falling man, taken by Richard Drew, depicts an unidentified man falling head-first from the burning towers during 9/11. This photo became an iconic representation of the pain and suffering brought about by the attack. In the image, we do not know how the man is feeling. He appears relaxed and embraces his death, accepting his fate.
2. Americans reacted to the news very negatively. Papers all over the country had to defend themselves against charges that exploited a man’s death, stripped him of his dignity, and invaded his privacy. Many people complained that someone seeing the picture had to know who it was. Specifically, the thought-to-be victim’s family claimed that it was not him because they knew that he would not have jumped off. They knew that he would have found some way to come back to the family or he was not the same person they knew. However, others’ believed that he died by jumping out the window and offered the family money. There was also resistance to the image, with mother’s protecting the image from their child saying they were just birds. The images taken that day were taboo out of respect for those victims’ families.
3. One of the ethical issues is if we should be allowed to view and distribute photos like “The Falling Man”. There is the argument that people should not see something this disturbing and brutal and that the photos invade the victims’ of their privacy by exploiting his or her death. On the other hand, the photos may be rememberings of what we faced as a country and how we fought back. It is important to remember 9/11 through the photos to help us learn lessons and remember those heroic victims. Another ethical issue is about the quest to identify victims and the effects that has on the family. Should journalists pursue accuracy and verification if it results in the harm of peoples already stricken by tragedy? Or should they find the truth to avenge the victims?


Lule, Chapter 2


1. Globalization - anytime anyone does anything anywhere across borders
Media - anything people use to communicate
2. The idea that the media were making the world “smaller” and bringing people closer together. Therefore, the prediction that the media would transform the world into a “global village.” It suggests community and fellowship and universal understanding and unity. However, we are far from this and instead, these partners, globalization and media, are combining to create a dark and divided village. In other words, a village of gated communities and border walls, refugees, terrorist and terrorized, hunter and hunted, alienation and mediation. 
3. The story of Babel tells how everyone is united and people speak a common language. Because of this, human’s feel like they are powerful and God-like, so they attempt to build a tower to reach God and challenge him. As a result, God decides to divide everyone up and disrupt their communication system by giving them different languages. McLuhan believes that global media as a way to regain what we lost in Babel. It has allowed people to think and speak as one and to overcome their diverse languages. On the contrary, globalization and media have helped create a village degraded by humankind’s greed, resulting in people’s suffering. In a way, it has recreated a global village of Babel (economics, politics, culture). [a]
4. The examples of Martin Luther and Wael Ghanim tells us the power of globalization and media. It is able to change history and fight against the corrupt. With global media, we are able to spread messages across the world. Martin Luther was able to get his message across the board even after his death due to the widespread media and Ghanim was able to overthrow the corrupted Egyptian government by exposing them through media.
5. One big area of potential for global media is eventually allowing everyone to communicate in essentially the same language and unifying everyone as a whole. People would be able to understand one and another accurately and quickly despite language barriers. Social media has enhanced our connectivity. Another big area of potential is saving lives. Media allows the spread of information, awareness, and motivation to those struggling and in need of help. It is already doing so by helping us relieve stress and pressure. On the other hand, a big challenge for global media in the future is getting people to not stay isolated. Since the growth of globalization, some people have actually become more isolated. They talk to people through SNS and stay home without any interaction to other human beings. Another big challenge for global media in the future is understanding different cultures. Regardless of being able to translate language, precise translation is never possible. For instance, being born in a Taiwanese family, there are some things that Americans do not understand. Vice versa, Taiwanese people do not get the sarcasm Americans do when I tell them it. 


Lule, Chapter 4


1. Oral Communication: Writing and reading are a form of technology. It, along with language, has allowed us to cooperate and communicate. Language has allowed a creation of other villages and towns as we started sharing information. It has also led to markets and the trade of goods and services. We survive because of our ability to speak, allowing us to work together as individuals or within social groups. Script: Since language was not perfect and distance caused trouble for oral communication, script as an elaborate system to communicate with language allowed this problem to be solved. The problem of time and forgetting was also solved. Scrip, the first writing, allowed humans to communicate and share knowledge and ideas over much larger spaces and across much longer times. With script on parchment, humans had a medium that catapulted globalization. It was critically important to the emergence, maintenance, and growth of the human civilizations and empires that fueled globalization. Printing Press: Led to elevation of a few languages across the globe known as the national languages, which helped give a rise to modern nations. Offered people a shared sense of identity and of belonging to a group. The publication also shared social, cultural, and political materials that furthered that sense of identity. Also aided scientific advancement. More people were literate and schooled. More people could pursue research. Publication and reports of research and inventions allowed scientists to share and then build upon knowledge. Electronic Media: Information could travel fast and people can communicate instantaneously to somewhere across the world. Rail travel was more efficient and safe since information about arrivals or delays could be passed down the line ahead of the trains. Corporations and businesses were able to exchange information about markets and prices. The ability to transmit speech over distance through cell phone. Radio and television (ads) brought together the visual and aural power of film. Digital Media: Allow instantaneous, global trading twenty-four hours a day. People are able to shop online and have products delivered to their door the next day. They have also allowed citizens to access information from around the world, even information that the government would like to conceal. However, they allow the government access to large amounts of private information and permit unprecedented surveillance. Digital media has transformed cultural life. Access to information around the globe allows people to adopt and adapt new practices in music, sports, education, religion, fashion, cuisine, the arts, etc. 
2. The most significant development in the history of media is the phone and computer. With, it we are able to communicate and access information around the world instantaneously. 
3. Technical determinism says technology advances in predictable ways. It says those technological advances then shape human events. It says technology thus has enormous effects on people and history. McLuhan can be seen as a technological determinist. 


Lule, Chapter 6


1. Oligopoly and companies like Nestle are only interested in profit rather than the care of people’s wellbeing. Through advertisements, Nestle was able to persuade and trick communities to buying their milk product in replacement of breast milk. However, Lule states that breast milk has nutrition and nutrients that cannot be found in Nestle milk. Breast milk is guaranteed healthy whereas Nestle milk can be contaminated with germs and diseases depending on the environment people live in. The problem in this situation is that people are more inclined to buy Nestle milk than use their free breast milk because of the skillful persuasion the company uses through their advertising.  Lule also argues that the oligarchy use advertising to offer us myths through the usage of superior celebrities and athletes. He further expresses that we tend to be easily persuaded by these athletes into buying their products because we look up to them. For instance, athletes such as Lebron James sign with Nike for endorsement, which benefits the company significantly. Why? Simply because of Lebron James’ popularity. His popularity as one of the greatest players in the NBA (National Basketball Association) and one of the great pioneers of the new basketball era has caused many people to view him as their role model. Thus, consumers would buy his shoes regardless of the high demanded price. Another example of a corporation would be Hypebeast brands which include Supreme, Bape, and Off-White. Over the past decade, hypebeast brands have slowly risen and become a global sensation because people believe that acquiring these things gives Hypebeasts status and helps them set themselves apart from the general public. For those unfamiliar which Hypebeast clothing, they are clothing that companies create in low quantity in order to increase their rarity and drive up prices. Consumers are tricked into thinking that each clothing is rare and costs a lot to create. In reality, a Bape jacket that costs $500 actually costs less than $10 to make. These brands are evidently playing with consumers by lying through advertisements about their products high quality material. Yes, the material may be nice, but it surely does not cost five hundred dollars.
2. 1. (They make global capitalism possible by creating the conceptual foundation and myths for it. This is primarily done through advertising, which endorses and celebrates ideas of consumption. Consuming things become essential to identity) 2. (Media themselves are huge transnational corporations that drive economic globalization) 3. (Media have become essential conduits-vehicles for information, data, communication and transactions essential for the functioning of global capitalism. Think of Google and its subsidiaries like youtube, facebook, instagram)
3. Concentration: ownership of media properties in fewer hands. 5 global firms dominate media industry in the US and similar trends worldwide. Conglomeration: media companies are part of larger corporations which also own business in high diverse areas. Integration: concentration of ownership has affected relations between different firms in a single conglomerate. Horizontal integration: process by which one company buys different kinds of media, concentrating ownership across different types of media. Vertical integration: process by which one owner acquires all aspects of production and distribution of a single product. H.I. may encourage the creation of certain types of media products which work with the business models of the conglomerate. V.I. companies that produce media also control distribution, so these products have an advantage in reaching the population.
4. The bottom billion: who hears their voices, who speaks for them? One billion of six live in poverty.


Lule, Chapter 8


1. The argument means that every event (political, cultural, etc.) is a media event. For example, a presidential election, a Radiohead music concert. Also, media events happen in global space now. Media networks are global in reach and scope, information travels instantaneously and widely, especially with social media. Yet the impact and consequences vary from place to place because of context, history, culture, politics, etc. Danish cartoons free speech or not. 
2. Cultural differentiation: cultures are strong and will endure the challenges of globalization. This suggests that cultures may clash. An example of this would be simplifying massive groups of people into a single idea of culture (think of multicultural societies like the US) and assuming cultures share nothing in common with each other. Cultural convergence: everything becomes similar, into one standardized, homogeneous culture. An example of this would be McDonaldization of the world. Principles of rationality, efficiency, standardization dominate American culture and the world (Westernization and Americanization). The idea of cultural imperialism in which powerful nations culturally dominate weaker ones, and media plays a central role in this process. Cultural hybridity: new cultural forms born of exchange, blending, and interaction of different cultures. McDonald’s could be an example of cultural hybridity rather than cultural convergence. The local adaptation of trends, processes, and phenomenon associated with globalization. 
3. The idea of clash of civilizations is that cultures are bound to clash and people’s cultural and religious identities will be a primary source of conflict in the future. Future wars would be fought not between countries, but between cultures. 


Croteau and Hoynes, Chapter 5


1. Ideology: a system of meaning that helps define and explain the world and that makes value judgements about that world. For instance, most U.S. television programs in the 1950s featured almost entirely white casts. Same programs assumed that unequal gender roles were appropriate and desirable, with men as breadwinners and women as stay-at-home moms. Old western movies had European Americans conquer the land of native people, who were portrayed as violent savages, rather than people trying to defend against invaders. Dominant ideology: more powerful ideology that are told to us repeatedly by the powerful or important social institutions such as the government and media. Others argue that mass media texts include more contradictory messages, both expressing the dominant ideology and at least partially challenging worldviews. Example of Isis and spread of videos destroying ancient sculptures. Another example is the belief that we need a strong military to fight terrorism. The black community. Cultural contradictions: different cultures have different particular ideas. For instance, the morality of abortion, homosexuality, immigration, or capital punishment is debated through various media technologies to promote their positions. [b]
2. Example of Danish newspaper reporting Ms. Obama by focusing on her appearance and ignoring her law school education and her successful career prior to becoming the First Lady. Gender representation in news media reinforces the stereotype that a woman’s goal is to attract, attain, and keep a man (objectification). Media texts where social norm is articulated. More than half percent of news stories in the United States reinforce traditional gender stereotypes through exaggerated assumptions of masculinity and femininity. 
3. Men associated with masculinity in hollywood films and the debate about military. One person argues how we need a strong military to fight terrorism and another argues that perhaps the presence of our troops around the world is one factor provoking terrorism. Different opinions. Also how Americans dominate war and the film about taking over Vietnamese people. 


Croteau and Hoynes, Chapter 6


1. A. Social ‘reality’ itself is socially constructed, think of terms like ‘liberal’ or ‘happiness’ or the meaning of practices like tattooing or symbols like the veil. B. All representation is re-presentation; it is selective and involves ‘framing’ (even so-called realistic media like documentaries). Representations are not reality. C. Media don’t necessarily try to represent the real world. Think genres like sci-fi. Yet even such genres can have social significance. D. Should media necessarily try and reflect reality? For many people it is an escape from daily life. 
2. Inclusion: Is a community, group, or population represented at all in media? If they are represented, what roles do they play? Are these stereotyped? Has the range of roles increased over time? For the better or is it the same? The Ellen show come out. Asians, Latinos, Blacks, and White. 
3. Race: slow change and modern racism. While progress has been made, albeit for some communities more than others, racism still persists. Modern racism is more subtle and insidious. Think of older kinds of stereotypes of African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, Asian-Americans. Consider contemporary forms of racism in media depiction as well. Gender: the control of media continues to be largely in male hands. While women are more visible in media roles, men continue to dominate. Women’s roles are also marked by certain patterns as well as by stereotypes. They tend to be seen in family and romance-centered roles as opposed to work-centered roles. Men tend to be disproportionately portrayed in positions of authority. In terms of quantity and quality of coverage, women’s sports are treated differently from male sports. Men’s sports receives more coverage. As with race, blatant stereotypes are less common but women athletes are trivialized and sexualized. However, there has been improvement in this regard as well. Sexual Orientation: Till the early 1930s, LGBT characters either shown as deviant, for comic purposes. More recently some improvement, with LGBT issues treated with due attention to complexity and in a sensitive manner. Independent films, more than mainstream Hollywood, have played and important role in this regard. 2009 onwards more commonly seen in media. TV follows the same pattern; more inclusive. This is the result of agency and did not happen by itself.
4. Social Class: Advertising is targeted more at some demographics, those with disposable income and higher social status. Paradoxically, newspapers sometimes reduce circulation to increase profits. They need to attract wealthier readers and get rid of poorer readers. American society is portrayed in media as wealthier than it actually is. Ads largely feature economically well-off and comfortable middle-class families and individuals. Entertainment media, such as films and sitcoms, follows the same pattern, with the exception of animated shows. The sitcoms that do have working-class characters often show them in stereotypical ways. These working-class characters are often those who have ‘made it’. Underlying message is that the hardships of the working class are their own fault. Tabloid shows like Jerry Springer will often mock the working class and poor people as lazy, foolish, immoral, and so on. Unions rarely seen. News reflects a middle and upper-class view of the world. 


Croteau and Hoynes, Chapter 7


1. How media plays a role in presidential election. In a highly mediated world, the media becomes a key avenue of political engagement. The role of image thus becomes paramount. Nixon--Kennedy TV debates were a turning point. Consider what qualities in a candidate might appeal to audiences. How might these qualities be conveyed. In relation, the concept of setting the stage: the frame, setting, or context in which the politician is viewed. Consider such frames (politician as a religious person, as a family person). Think of specific examples. Political communication has become highly professionalized and a lucrative profession. It is a form of PR. Managing the media message is of paramount importance. It may also involve communicating negative messages about opponents.
2. Politics as spectator sport is the idea that politics can be reduced to a game with a victor and loser, rather than about policy differences or different views of the world. A culture of polls reinforces this idea. Polls run the risk of being self-fulfilling prophecies and they may inhibit voting because people think results are a foregone conclusion.[c]


Croteau and Hoynes, Chapter 8


1. Meaning is made by “socially located individuals under historical circumstances. We have interpretive agency but it is subject to constraints. 
2. Social context of media use: how, where, and when media is consumed shapes its meaning along with what is said in the content of the media text. Foreign media can be oppressive if imposed or liberating; the same media can speak differently to different people. Symbolic value of consuming media.


Mcintyre, “The Rise of Social Media and the Problem of Fake News”


1. The presidential election → giving people what they want by covering Donald Trump a lot. Also, most of us get news from Facebook. Fake news is essentially any news. It was invented right along with the concept of “news” itself. Everything we see in the newspapers starting from the invention of the printing press is fake news. 
2. Fake news in yellow journalism as propaganda. Disinformation spread by reporters for money. The Spanish-American War would not have occurred had not the appearance of Hearts in New York journalism precipitated a bitter battle for newspaper circulation. 
3. 1. Invention of the printing press in 1439 → real news was hard to verify in that era. Readers in search of fact had to pay close attention. 2. During scientific revolution and the Enlightenment, before the French Revolution, number of pamphlets in Paris recounting the near-bankruptcy of the government. However, these were put out by rival political factions, who used different numbers and blamed different people. Eventually, enough information came out that people got the right picture. Like today, people have to be skeptical and skilled to figure out the truth → the emergence of objectivity. 3. Rise of Associated Press, the first American wire service and the invention of the telegraph → gathered news for publication in a variety of papers with widely different political allegiances, making its reporting objective enough to be acceptable to all its members and clients.[d]


Hvistendahl, “Can ‘Preventative Policing’ Prevent Crime?”


1. Predictive policing is where police car laptops will display maps showing locations where crime is likely to occur, based on data-crunching algorithms developed by scientists at Carnegie Mellon University here. In theory, the maps could help cops do a better job of preventing crime. [e]
2. Civil liberties groups and racial justice organizations argue that predictive policing perpetuates racial prejudice in a dangerous new way, by shrouding it in the legitimacy accorded by science. Crime prediction models rely on flawed statistics that reflect the inherent bias in the criminal justice system, they contend → same type of bias that makes black men more likely to get shot dead by the police than white men. Privacy is another concern. The other argument is how it seems to work with reduced crime in certain areas. People also argue that predictive policing can be more fair than the status quo because what’s forgotten is that any time you put an officer in the field, there’s a risk of civil liberties violations. 
3. Scientists in Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon use geographic focus and research showing that criminals tend to progress from minor to more serious crimes. As a result, reports of minor crimes could help predict potential flare-ups of violent crime. This is similar to Earthquake aftershocks.
4. Controversy in that the program overemphasizes both an individual’s potential to offend and the use of policing, rather than other services, to fight crime → reinforces the way in which America devalues the lives of young people of color. The data relied also is skewed toward crimes committed by people of color. 


Videos




[a]use the idea of global village in the new essay
[b]ideologies
[c]maybe use in essay
[d]good resource
[e]maybe use as part of the solution