Chou 
Technology and Identity Baym Ch. 5


1. Online communication challenges the notions of normality with the new relationships fostered by the space that technology and online communication has allowed us to overcome. We can create our own profiles on dating sites, put our best images that define our best self, and even lie to other individuals about what we look like. Online communication gives us a lack of nonverbal cues and we are not physically talking to each other face to face. This challenges the notions of normality which has the idea of communication and expressing emotion using language. When people are on a discussion medium based on common interests, there is a similarity with members which can make the encounters more attractive. Leads to connections which otherwise might not form. The Internet lowers social risk of communicating, people are more likely to share secrets. Usage of emojis/ punctuation/ informal language to convey meaning, due to the lack of social/nonverbal cues. Blurs social boundaries between groups and challenges social norms of appropriateness. 
2. People seek new romantic or sexual partners through dating sites, and so new relationships are fostered through the online communication and messaging that technology has brought. Helps maintain old relationships by providing a medium through which one can stay updated on the life of that particular person, and makes it easy to reach out at any point in time (easier to contact them without being there. It is also easier to like people online. Newer relationships are created due to hyperpersonal communication because it exceeds face to face interaction. If someone is shy or awkward, they can go meet people online where there is a delay, they can think about what they want to say. 
3. Latent ties are potential relationships that are structurally enabled but have not been activated. An example of latent ties are friends of friends on facebook. It is people who you could potentially become friends with but aren't yet. This further exists in online communities of people with shared interests. 
4. Consider the topic is online sex cheating? When there is no body attached to behavior the authenticity of behavior becomes less clear. Embodiment/disembodiment is the fact that on the internet we don't have a physical presence; we can be whoever we want to be. Disembodiment can take multiple forms, for example, Baym speaks about how each of her online profiles are presented differently depending on the site/context. "All of these are genuine parts of me, but online they are segmented into separate spaces where they can be distinct identities.” 
5. Social cues can indicate identity taste, brands language choices. Platforms push norms, and shape identities. Self-perception - feedback loop reshapes self-concepts - influence actions in line with the constructed online identity. White, English speaking, straight - default consideration for online culture. 
Raphael                                        
1. Invention is influenced by: social contexts (current beliefs, assumptions, power relations, and events), economic actors (government, competitors in the marketplace), and the users of technology (who often deploy it for ends not intended by the inventors). Social construction perspective - people are the primary sources of change in technology and social life, and technologies arise from social processes. Invention is influenced by the three factors. Black rights movements-young kids listened to radio. Radio started as military, developed to be for entertainment (O Holy Night broadcast Christmas eve). Developed to become news and entertainment. 
Media Households
1. 1960s, TV bring conflict: war in vietnam. 1970s: watergate and women's movement. Brought news and important information about the world, society, and government. Eventually, TV became accustomed in the household. I was just there while in the past, families often gathered around it to bond or watch some shows together. Now, we forget the significance of the television.
2. 'Routine behaviors': media as part of routines, rituals, becomes embedded in household.
3. 'Mediatization' of the home: media are everywhere, and embedded in everyday life. Become embedded in routine/daily behaviors.
4. Ideological- post WW2, explosion of images of the housewife (we saw this as an example on TV, how women are supposed to act and what their roles are at home), to make women go back to working at home. Advertisements come into the home. Media is everywhere in the home and is used for everything, become embedded in routine/daily behaviors. Our cell phones are with us and act as assistants everywhere we go.
5. Tv became popular as it created an image of an "american" and it created a sense of belonging. Becomes part of home decor: window in the world, but also a 'one -eyed monster'. TV connected private and public spheres, window on the world. 
Online relationships Baym Ch. 6
1. (2000=3.1) (2012=11.1). Significant because we have become more accustomed to online relationships/used to them. Communication creates relationships easier to like people online, resulting into hyperpersonal communication, which surpasses the level of affection and emotion of face to face communication. The internet helps us have more specialized and intermittent contacts with more people.
2. Sparse cues: online relationships consist of more control/revision/and room for presenting self and imagining the other. People are easier to like online. Sparse cues are important because they allow people to get artificially closer over the web. Shows that relationships in person are not always as strong as the same relationships would be online. Sparse cues denotes a lack of easily identifiable social cues when comparing online interactions to physical ones. Limited social cues we have hold much more weight (more important), where they can give off unintended meanings. For instance, poor spelling online can often be an identifier of sloppiness, lack of education, or other negative qualities. 
3. Most relationships are characterized by media multiplexity, which means they are conducted through more than one medium and closer relationships use more media. Using more media allows more conversation. Media multiplexity: Relationships are conducted through more than one medium (ex: I snapchat and text Daniel). Polymedia: Media system where the specific form of communication has message in itself (ex: texting or fb message). 
Social Media
1. To be unannoying, a Facebook status typically has to be one of two things: Interesting/Informative or Funny/Amusing/Entertaining. This is because the things in those two categories do something for me, the reader. They make my day a little better. On the other hand, annoying statuses typically reek of one or more of these five motivations: 1) Image Crafting. The author wants to affect the way people think of her. 2) Narcissism. The author's thoughts, opinions, and life philosophies matter. The author and the author's life are interesting in and of themselves. 3) Attention Craving. The author wants attention. 4) Jealousy Inducing. The author wants to make people jealous of him or his life. 5) Loneliness. The author is feeling lonely and wants Facebook to make it better. 
2. Most people don't feel like they are actually paying when the payment is personal data and when there is no specific sensation of having handed anything over. While every business has slightly mixed motives, those companies that we pay live and die by how they serve the customer. We are their customers, but we are also their products, ultimately resold to others. People completely undervalue their online data. We should be asking Facebook to pay us since they make so much money off advertisements that are tailored from our personal data. We think it's free. You don't lose anything by giving data away, but by getting nothing in return, we are not receiving what we deserve (hence the thief in the picture). Giving data away also makes us more vulnerable to advertisements as our world slowly becomes more customizable.
Privacy
1. It is the age of information so privacy is important to everyone. Our personal information is valued by advertisers and the ability to control information about ourselves is linked to dignity/personhood/self-respect. "Privacy is affected not only by laws, customs and a constant dialectic between privacy invading and privacy protecting technologies, but the cultural assumptions that underlie attitudes about technologies." It can only be appreciated once it's lost. When we lose control of information about ourselves, we lose a sense of dignity, self-respect, and personhood. It allows for the idea of starting fresh again. 
2.         Personally, I believe that privacy should matter to me because the private information defines who I am and represents control in my life, allowing me to create my personal space. In other words, if my privacy was targeted or damaged, it would affect me in a negative way directly. Without privacy, I wouldn’t have a place where I can process my own thoughts and ideas and feel humane. Furthermore, privacy limits the power of the government and keeps the government in check. Although I understand that the government can basically “see” what we do on the internet or social media and that technology usage is under surveillance all the time, there are still things that I do not post or put on social media because it is something I want to keep personal. Lastly, I feel like personal data is essential to so many decisions made about me, such as getting a license or a job and our personal and professional reputations. Because personal data affects nearly everything, including what messages and content we see on the internet, we are virtually helpless in today’s world without having knowledge of what data is being used, how it is being used, the ability to correct and amend it. Therefore, privacy should matter to me because it creates control over my own life. 
Similar to what I read in the New York Times article, I believe we can secure and enhance privacy by using less social media and not posting deep valuable information about yourself. This may seem difficult in our day and age, but over the past 2 years, I started using posting less and going on social media. The result? Nothing really changed overtime. Not only did I protect a lot of my personal information, I also was able to maintain my own personal space of freedom as well as having a sense of belonging in society. Yes, I admit, many people including my friends messaged me initially asking where I had gone. However, they understood the dangers of social media as well and respected my decision, so nowadays, I only use texting and calling as my source of communication (no snapchat, no instagram, no facebook). As a result, I feel that in order to protect my privacy, I can give up social media, which is something difficult for many people in my generation to do now. 
Humphries 
Ch.2
1. Media accounting: Media no longer finite, not everything has to be news. For instance, posts may not be newsworthy, but can be significant, and meaningful, in other ways. Content doesn't have to be of general interest. There is room for an infinite amount of information online. We are no longer limited by minutes of newscasts, pages in newspapers. Posts don’t have to be for everyone (consider subgroups, hashtags, friends, followers). Media accounting also emphasizes the ritualistic aspects of daily life (we live in different realities such as student, worker, etc. in one day). 
2. Sharing or media accounting can be seen as an online form of keeping a diary. Diaries have entries.
3. Media accounting emphasizes the ritualistic aspects of daily life. Moments of pause, reconnections. (Both posting and reading or viewing). Media rituals are mundane → performances and provide space for reflexivity. 
Ch.6
1. Multifrenia, experience of having multiple selves. All of these digital communication: photography, digital media, read/write culture focuses on different aspects of the individual. Amateur photography: media practice rather than artistic practice; focusing on communication. 
Ong
1. In primary culture, you can’t look up anything, words have no visual presence; words are just occurrences, events (no knowledge of writing). For instance, you can’t stop sound and “have” sound (no still shots of sound). In oral cultures, words have power. For example, names have power because they define us and convey power (consider if people get our names wrong v.s. our address). When we live in an oral culture we feel more. On the other hand, secondary orality comes with electronic technology, which is where we are now, based on the use of writing and print. In secondary orality, we are group-minded self-consciously. For instance, in orality of presidential debates, they are exchanges. In secondary orality, they are scripted, formatted exchanges. 
Technology and Creativity
1. Read only v.s. Read write. We actually have the opportunity to both produce and consume. Most significant thing to recognize about what this Internet is doing is its opportunity to revive the read-write culture. There is this fear of turning into a read only culture where creativity is consumed, but consumers aren’t creative. User-generated content, spreading in businesses in extraordinarily valuable ways like these, celebrating amateur culture. Growing extremism - automatically takedown from Youtube any copyright content. and on the other side, kids have a growing copyright abolitionism. To solve this, first, that artists and creators embrace the idea, choose that their work be made available more freely. So, for example, they can say their work is available freely for non-commercial, this amateur-type of use. We need to recognize you can't kill the instinct the technology produces. We can't stop our kids from using it. We can only drive it underground. We can't make our kids passive again.
2. Technology allows for the revival of creativity: Allows for read-write culture, take songs and remix them, Re-creation is a keyword, implement creativity, democratizing. The law has not used common sense by restricting from copyrights. Extremism forms on both sides; law uses auto-takedown to remove anything on youtube with any form of copyright, kids are completely ignoring the law.
Education (Ito text)
1. In considering these four sets of resources, it is important to realize their relation with ICT use. On the one hand, each of the resources is a contributor to effective use of ICTs. In other words, the presence of these resources helps ensure that ICT can be well used and exploited. On the other hand, access to each of these resources is a result of effective use of ICTs. In other words, by using ICTs well, we can help extend and promote access to these resources. If handled well, these resources can thus serve as a virtual circle that promotes social development and inclusion. 
Access (Warshauer’s text)
1. Access to ICT is embedded in a complex array of factors encompassing physical, digital, human, and social resources and relationships. Meaningful access to ICT= more than merely providing computers and Internet connections. Content and language, literacy and education, and community and institutional structures must all be taken into account if meaningful access to new technologies is to be provided. Whatever resources we put into it affect what comes out of it.
2. The digital divide framework provides a poor roadmap for using technology to promote social development since it overemphasizes the importance of the physical presence of computers and connectivity to the exclusion of other factors that allow people to use ICT for meaningful ends. For instance, computers and telecommunications, without engaging the important set of complementary resources and complex interventions to support social inclusion, of which informational technology applications may be enabling elements, but are certainly insufficient when simply added to the status quo mix of resources and relationships.


Technology and Community Baym Ch. 4
1. 1) Sense of space: the feeling that online groups meeting on software and hardware platforms constitute as "spaces" is integral to the language often used to describe the internet. In terms of geography, the internet has been used as a means of building local community, creating community networks to foster civic engagement. 2) Shared practices: community can also be found in usually unconscious practices-routinized behaviors that group members share. 3) shared resources and support: resources people attain because of their network of relationships. 4) shared identities: personalities and roles assumed by individuals and also a shared sense of "we" from groups online.