Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Kratz
COMM12
30 November 2019
Gamer’s Plus
        In Jane McGonical’s TED talk, she argues that spending more time playing games can essentially improve or make the world better. She further argues that if we want to survive, we need to have 21 billion hours of gameplay every week in order to solve world problems such as hunger, poverty, climate change, global conflict, and obesity. Why? We learn that by spending all this time playing games, we’re actually changing what we are capable of as human beings. We are evolving to be more collaborative and hearty species, something helpful in the workforce. The problem with this is that as gamers, we feel that we are not as good in reality as we are in games and thus we are not motivated to do something that matters. In the gaming world, we strive for an epic win and the game itself makes an epic win seem possible. Gamers gain feedback, collaboration, trust, and bond, which is often absent from reality. Specifically, McGonical states that they are good at urgent optimism, social fabric, blissful productivity, and having the desire for epic meaning. She strongly argues that we need to start making our real world like a game.
        If we are able to translate the four main strengths of gamers to the real world, we can possibly improve and solve real problems, specifically in our education. Urgent optimism, the desire to act immediately to tackle an obstacle combined with the belief that we have a reasonable hope of success can be pivotal in education. In today’s world, we learn how to maintain our grades, make friends, and take on a lot of activities at the same time. Our education system makes it seem for students that they have to do all three in order to go to a good college and find a stable job in order to survive. No games, no dreams, just school. As a result, students are often stressed and “over 60% of college students” are experiencing with either loneliness or depression (Writers). With the gamers’ mentality of extreme self motivation, this can not only change the education depression rate by giving students an extreme self motivation to do well, but also to teach students to do well for themselves and that it’s not just about school, college, jobs. 
        Also, I think it’s a good idea to implement gaming into our education social area. This can help ignite that “desire for epic meaning” that McGonical talks about. Implementing games in education can help create a future in the classroom where students and children receive constant feedback and encouragement, enhancing their gamer mindset in a collaborative learning environment. I can see our education system further benefitting from a bit of gamer’s attitude and skills through these collaborative learning environments. McGonical describes the idea of Social Fabric and how we like people better after we play a game with them, even if they beat us multiple times. There is a building trust with others spending their crucial time with us and valuing the same game. 
Moreover, I found that “70% of gamers play with their friends in the same room, and only 20% play alone”, which can often be seen at gaming cafes (Loo). If we can apply the “prosocial behaviors that are critical for healthy social development” such as teamwork, communication, and interpersonal skills, “children with positive social skills” can “more likely have a higher self-esteem, good peer relationships, and achieve better in school” (Loo). Being a student myself, I hope schools can use what we learn from a gamer’s attitude, mentality, and skills to further push our education to greater limits. We should not look at the negatives of gaming and instead focus on the benefits we can apply. As the economy becomes more and more prosperous, it is only fair for all individuals to have a greater education.




































Works Cited
Loo, Kara. “7 Ways Video Games Will Help Your Kids in School.” HuffPost, HuffPost, 7 Dec. 
        2017, www.huffpost.com/entry/7-ways-video-games-help_b_6084990.
Writers, Staff. “College Student Depression: How to Spot the Signs Early & Get Help.” 
        AffordableCollegesOnline.org, AffordableCollegesOnline.org, 23 Nov. 2019, 
        www.affordablecollegesonline.org/college-resource-center/college-student-depression/.