Chou 






Focus of Paper: As stated in the paper, the purpose is to talk about how the relationships between individuals have improved when using huge networking platforms because of its supportive qualities. 
Concept engaged with: Lule, Chapter 2-Global Village of Babel. Lule, Chapter 4-Media history and the impact of inventions, specifically the electronic media. Croteau and Hoynes-Chapter 5, Ideology concepts. Croteau and Hoynes-Chapter 7, media with the political world.
Two main arguments: 1. Social Media improves our relationships between groups of people in different countries. 2. Social Media helps us build real relationships and friendships. 
Overall Assessment of Issue: We should embrace the positive qualities of social media because it has helped us develop more meaningful relationships and increased our unity as world.
Citation of External Academic source: Shirky, Clay. Cognitive Surplus: How Technology Makes Consumers into Collaborators. New York: Penguin Books, 2011. Print.














Evan Chou
Professor Chopra
COMM2
5 June 2019
Social Media and Our Relationships
        Wake-up, look at social media, go to school, look at social media, study, look at social media, go to activities, look at social media, and sleep. It may not sound like a person’s normal daily life, but in reality, it actually is. Over the past decade, social media networks have continued to grow, taking over the world economy and changing the global media system. It has quickly became integrated in the daily lives of millions of people all over the globe and most of us can’t go through the day without opening our touch-screen phones. These platforms have created surplus jobs, raised the employment rate globally, boosted the U.S. economy, and spread informative global news around the world. People of all race, gender, and nationality from any location can understand and view events that are happening on the other side of the country with a single touch. In fact, how could we even live without social media? There has been a long debate on whether social media will end up corrupting society or not. Are we becoming less sociable and are large social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter really helping people's relationships with one another? In this paper, I will talk about how the relationships between individuals have improved when using huge networking platforms because of its supportive qualities. 
Social media has undoubtedly blown up the world of beginning, maintaining, and ending relationships, often getting a bad reputation for how it impacts relationships. However, I truly believe it has the ability to benefit and enhance personal interactions. Despite some negatives of social media with harmful things, specifically cyberbullying, people have better relationships with others once they start using the platform.
Cyberbullying  
        Of course, many argue that cyberbullying is brought up on websites such as Facebook and Twitter, causing high teen suicide rates. According to the American Association of Suicidology, the “rates for suicide among 10 to 14 year olds has grown 50 per cent” in a time span that went from about 2013 to 2016 (“Bullying Suicide Statistics”). This rise in suicide rates is due in part to the increased interactions people are having on social media that lead to harmful effects on people’s relationships. Individuals now have a platform where they can target enemies and bully those they dislike. Furthermore, they argue that media and globalization are combining to make a dark and divided village. The global village, instead, is currently a place of “division and woe, not unity and peace” (Lule, 18). We see posts on Facebook and Instagram about refugees, terrorist attacks, and hate speech. Therefore, social media has only caused our relationship with one and another to diminish and dwindle. 
However, social media has the ability to keep others safe and out of harm's way, which improves human relationships. For instance, an attempted coup that targeted high ranking officials in Turkey’s executive branch, including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, failed due to the aid of social media. Erdongan’s decision to use “the video capability on his mobile phone to communicate with the nation” allowed the president to inform thousands of people around Turkey of his dire situation and the simple action of spreading the news concerning his situation led to the hundreds of rebellious soldiers staging the coup to surrender (Sass). The coup plotters also used Snapchat to communicate in secret, fostering their growth as a community and improving their communication with one and another. It is evident that social media has allowed groups to form, enhancing a stronger relationship between people. Social Media groups connect individuals with similar goals and make them work together towards a purpose. In this case, the success of saving President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has caused the Turkish community to become closer.
Social Media Improvements in Relationships
The global network and social media have eliminated the problem of countries and societies being separated by thousands of miles. The invention of electronic media further enabled information to travel fast and people to communicate instantaneously anywhere around the globe (Lule, 60). These media websites are part of electronic media in that they connect people across the world and help them interact with others. According to Clay Shirky, a professor at New York University, Facebook in October, 2016 “reported that about 1.8 billion people” logged on to the website every month (qtd. in Manjoo). This seemingly insignificant number accounts for nearly one quarter of the world’s population. That’s one quarter of the entire human population interacting with one another on a single platform that is relatively new in comparison to the rest of human history (Shirky). Having a single place where numerous societies can conversate on a single topic allows for shifts in power to occur due to the new ideologies created from SNS and different ideologies people have conforming into a single decision (Croteau and Hoynes. Media and Ideology). We are influenced by what social media tells us. As a result, social media has united us into one. 
Such a shift in power is visible through presidential elections (Croteau and Hoynes. Media Influence and the Political World). For instance, the unification of people and influence of ideologies that social media creates is seen again with the recent presidential election that allowed for the seemingly impossible situation for Donald Trump to ever become president turn into a reality. A chart compiled by Brandwatch, a company that focuses its efforts on social intelligence research, revealed that the 2016 campaign resulted in Trump having over 10 million Twitter mentions regarding his actions during the three presidential debates (Sanders). What would seem like a hopeless situation at first, such as Trump’s presidential campaign that many thought would be doomed to succumb under Hillary Clinton’s campaign, became possibilities with the extensive amounts of thought-sharing that social media allows. According to a research collaboration between research organizations BuzzSumo and Fractl, the total amount of shares just for the top three ranking publication sites around the years of 2014 to 2016 numbered to about 690 million, which is a little more than double the population of America (Amron). This huge number of shares reveals only a tiny glimpse of the amount of total shares across all publication and social media sites, revealing the still untapped power of the social media platform. Not only do the advancements in social media allow millions of people to participate in events thousands of miles away from their homes, but also permits people to take part in various worldwide events scattered all about the internet such as dilemmas concerning climate change and unemployment, on a diverse, easily accessible platform. Thus, the relationship between people from different countries are improving, as their thoughts are getting shown through the media.
Improvements in Relationships of All Ages
        The age group that currently dominates social media ranges from teenagers up to adults around their 40s. Since websites take only a few clicks and keystrokes to be registered, virtually anyone has the ability to have a social media account regardless of how old they are. Some individuals interviewed by Carrie Kerpen, the CEO of Likeable Media, contained women well past their forties who have integrated social media into their daily lives such as Anita Rosner of the podcast Snork and Marie Bonaccorso of Sassy Tweetress (Kerpen). Teenagers have obviously taken part in the evolving social network and even older citizens as well are happily using the networking platforms. With data taken from Pew Research Center, ninety-two percent of American teens have been reported to go on social media at least once a day, with about twenty-four percent almost on the platform constantly (Jingjing). Outstanding appeal towards social media has created a place where not only older individuals take part in a recently developed concept, but younger individuals can grow and bond in relationships with adults. Many parents and their children are friends on social media sites, where they can see each others’ activities and milestones in their careers. Parents can understand their child better and check to see if they are doing well. On the other hand, individuals can talk to their parents more frequently due to the flexibility and ease of instantaneous messaging. Moreover, social media apps only require wifi, whereas calls demand payment. Hence, more people would use something free to communicate rather than something they would need to pay in order to communicate. As social media continues to blossom, our relationship with our parents and elderly continue to grow positively as well.
Those with Similar Voices
With Facebook, people have been voicing their opinions more and more about controversial topics due in part to the ease of use. Recent years have shown that the offline and online life are further intertwining as time goes on, persuading groups to take advantage of the platform in order to benefit themselves and potentially others as well. According to Gil Pizano, an owner of Helpful Insights Online, “as long as there is a person who wishes to express their opinion … social media will allow them to do so” (Pizano). Present in Celine Christina’s article, Amandla Stenberg is a great example of a brave teenager with a clear opinion regarding “cultural appropriation, feminism and the #BlackLivesMatter movement” (“Voices of the oppressed: Utilizing social media to create change”). Her passionate actions to advocate for change allotted her over one million followers on her Instagram account alone despite her young teenage age. Allowing herself to voice personal stances on debates that include the prejudice of American police officers against the black community have truly moved numerous individuals. Those with similar opinions from Amandla Stenberg have created many small groups on Facebook (“Voices of the oppressed: Utilizing social media to create change”). The small groups give people a place where they can form bonds with the members and put out their opinions and views on the subject matter. Ultimately, this boosts Amandla Stenberg’s relationship with her followers and the members of the small groups themselves. 
Building Real Relationships 
        Now, I agree that as a society, we are overusing social media and losing interaction with our real life family and friends to an extent. But in truth, it is our ideology on social media and how we use it that causes us to think this way. We think that we will lose our ability to communicate in person due to all the time we spend online, but we actually gain more interaction with people in person because of social media. According to Wellman’s research, 
Online communication – email, instant messaging, chat rooms, etc. – does not replace 
        more traditional offline forms of contact – face-to-face and telephone. Instead, it adds on 
        to them, increasing the overall volume of contact. More specifically, people with a great 
        deal of online conversations have just as many offline conversations as those who decline 
        to participate in the former. (Trumpet)
Social media is, instead, a bridge that helps start relationships with others and can be helpful in getting to know someone and building relationships that go beyond the computer screen. For example, during my freshman year in college, my roommate and I both found each other through Facebook. We got to know each other through chatting on Facebook messenger and later exchanged numbers. When we finally met in person, it wasn’t awkward because we had already gotten the chance to know one another through Facebook and text messaging. It is clear that our relationship as friends has greatly evolved into something important in our lives because of the global media. 
Students can also meet fellow peers and students at school through social media. Writer Nicole Henry from West Liberty University says that “There are a lot people I know that go to the university because I follow them on social media. We actually say hello to each other in passing because we are friends with each other on Twitter or Facebook” (Trumpet). As a student, I agree with Henry in that we both make a significant amount of friends through these platforms, which assist us in learning more about other individuals and teaching us how to improve our relationship with one and another. What is extremely interesting about this is our human reaction in response to the strangers we meet online. Why do we friend strangers that go to the same school on Facebook? Why do we wave at other students in which we’ve never met before in person? More importantly, why do we feel comfortable about this? It is apparent that there is some correlation between social media and us benefiting in relationships. If we feel like it is normal to wave at someone who we accepted as a friend 5 minutes ago, then Facebook and other media sites are successful in strengthening and unifying a global relationship. 
A Different View
        On that note, the impact of global media and the changes in media platforms have created a network influencing the way people handle their relationships and live outside their physical lives. Ideally, utopian societies would be everyone’s ideal living conditions, but even with the presence of social media and technology, there are still drawbacks to people’s lives. Our relationship with each other has improved and we are more unified than ever, but it is crucial for people to realize that everywhere around the world, expanding and strengthening grips of both technology and social networking are changing the way people live, whether if it is for better or for worse. As social media continues to grow, I hope that we consider the potential harm and danger it can bring as well. It is only right in directing the media to a pathway that benefits everyone in the future.
For now, I believe social media is a fun outlet that opens up a lot of opportunities to create and maintain connections, something that we strive for, instinctively. There are so many people we communicate with online who, without social media, we might never have known. Yes, dangers are arising and toxic relationships can form, but the positives these media platforms bring to the human relationship outweighs all the negatives. I would rather meet my best friend and go through poor meetings with strangers on social media than never being able to encounter someone so important and significant in my life. The world really is getting smaller, and we're now connected to each other both digitally and physically. A great quote by Nietzsche that sums this up perfectly: "Invisible threads are the strongest ties."




































Works Cited
“Bullying and Suicide.” Bullying Statistics, 7 July 2015, 
        www.bullyingstatistics.org/content/bullying-and-suicide.html.
Croteau, and Hoynes. Media Influence and the Political World. 
        https://camino.instructure.com/courses/50524/files/folder/Readings?preview=2685811
Croteau, and Hoynes. Media and Ideology. 
        www.sagepub.com/sites/default/files/upm-binaries/5239_Croteau_Chapter_5.pdf.
Pizano, Gil. “How Much Has Social Media Changed Society?” ShoutMeLoud, 12 Aug. 2018, 
        www.shoutmeloud.com/how-much-has-social-media-changed-society.html.
Jingjing, Jiang. “Teens, Social Media & Technology 2018.” Pew Research Center: Internet, 
        Science & Tech, Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech, 30 Nov. 2018, 
        www.pewinternet.org/2018/05/31/teens-social-media-technology-2018/.
Kerpen, Carrie. “How Has Social Media Changed Us?” Forbes, Forbes Magazine, 21 Apr. 2016, 
        www.forbes.com/sites/carriekerpen/2016/04/21/how-has-social-media-changed-us/.
Lule, Jack. Globalization and Media: Global Village of Babel. Lanham, Md: Rowman & 
        Littlefield, 2018. Print.
Sanders, Sam. “Did Social Media Ruin Election 2016?” NPR, NPR, 8 Nov. 2016, 
        www.npr.org/2016/11/08/500686320/did-social-media-ruin-election-2016.
Sass, Erik. “Social Media Helped Defeat Turkish Coup.” 07/18/2016, 
        www.mediapost.com/publications/article/280480/social-media-helped-defeat-turkish- 
        coup.html.
Shirky, Clay. Cognitive Surplus: How Technology Makes Consumers into Collaborators. New 
        York: Penguin Books, 2011. Print.
Trumpet. “Social Media Helps Build Real Relationships.” The Trumpet | WLU's Student News 
        Source, 19 Apr. 2015, 
        westliberty.edu/thetrumpet/2015/04/18/social-media-helps-build-real-relationships/.
“Voices of the Oppressed: Utilizing Social Media to Create Change.” The Jakarta Post, 
        www.thejakartapost.com/youth/2016/08/24/voices-of-the-oppressed-utilizing-social- 
        media-to-create-change.html.