Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Chopra
COMM2
14 April 2019
Lule, Chapter 6 Response
        Globalization has lead to the growth of certain companies and social media, ultimately raising the controversy of whether the prospering of these modern day power companies and organizations have a negative or positive impact on people around the world. Today, global media and our lives is essentially controlled by few companies, notably Walt Disney. Starting as a small cartoon business, Disney soon became a world name due to globalization. People flew in from everywhere to witness the magic that was talked about so commonly on advertisements and the news. Although powerful companies and organizations such as Disney have boosted world economy and brought initial happiness and joy to people globally, these companies have more so negatively impacted people’s lives through corruption and lies.
        In the book Globalization & Media, author Jack Lule argues that the oligopoly and companies like Nestle are only interested in profit rather than the care of people’s wellbeing. Specifically, he gives the example of how through advertisements, Nestle was able to persuade and trick communities to buying their milk product in replacement of breast milk. What’s wrong with their milk product? Lule states that breast milk has nutrition and nutrients that cannot be found in Nestle milk. Breast milk is guaranteed healthy whereas Nestle milk can be contaminated with germs and diseases depending on the environment people live in (Lule 90). The problem in this situation is that people are more inclined to buy Nestle milk than use their free breast milk because of the skillful persuasion the company uses through their advertising. 
Another example would be Hypebeast brands which include Supreme, Bape, and Off-White. Over the past decade, hypebeast brands have slowly risen and become a global sensation because people believe that “acquiring these things gives Hypebeasts status and helps them set themselves apart from the general public” (Kuc). For those unfamiliar which Hypebeast clothing, they are clothing that companies create in low quantity in order to increase their rarity and drive up prices. Consumers are tricked into thinking that each clothing is rare and costs a lot to create. In reality, a Bape jacket that costs $500 actually costs less than $10 to make (Kuc). These brands are evidently playing with consumers by lying through advertisements about their products high quality material. Yes, the material may be nice, but it surely does not cost five hundred dollars. 
Lule also argues that the oligarchy use advertising to offer us myths through the usage of superior celebrities and athletes. He further expresses that we tend to be easily persuaded by these athletes into buying their products because we look up to them (Lule 94). For instance, Stephen Curry signing the deal to sponsor Under Armour has been fruitful to the company. Representing the company, Steph Curry is “reportedly worth up to $14 billion to Under Armour, according to Business Insider” (Sankofa). Why? Simply because of Stephen Curry’s popularity. His popularity as one of the best shooters in the NBA (National Basketball Association) and one of the great pioneers of the new basketball era has caused many people to view him as their role model. Thus, consumers would buy his shoes regardless of the high demanded price. 
Advertisements have evidently helped promote company products and increased their profits, though the advertising almost always includes lies to deceive the consumers. As a result, I hope we are more mindful about the products we buy and watch in our daily lives. It is only fair for everyone to benefit off of the global media as globalization continues to alter our society.




































Works Cited
Kuc, Sabri. “Hypebeast, Why?” Galileo Press, 17 Nov. 2017, 
        galileopress.org/index.php/2017/11/16/hypebeast-why/. 
Sankofa, Omari. “Will Stephen Curry's Sneakers Reach Older Fanbase?” SI.com, 
        www.si.com/nba/2016/07/20/stephen-curry-warriors-under-armour-nike-kevin-durant 
        -lebron-james.
Lule, Jack. Globalization and Media: Global Village of Babel. Lanham, Md: Rowman & 
        Littlefield, 2018. Print.