Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Chopra
COMM2
28 April 2019
Media Example Reflecting Dominant Ideology Principle
        In Croteau’s Chapter 5 of “Media and Ideology”, it is stated that an ideology is a system of meaning that helps define and explain the world and that makes value judgments about that world. It further refers to the broad idea of the “basics ways in which the world is defined” and therefore, “is not just about politics” (Croteau 153). Specifically, some argue that many ideologies, known as dominant ideologies, are told to us repeatedly by the powerful or important social institutions such as the government and media. On the other hand, Croteau states the principle of how cultural contradictions cause others to argue that the media texts “include more contradictory messages” (Croteau 154). For instance, ISIS media provides great examples of how dominant ideology plays a role in our daily lives. On February 26, 2015, ISIS posted a Youtube video showing the “deliberate destruction” of ancient sculptures in the Mosul Museum and the archaeological site of Kuyunjuk (Harmansah 171). Of course, immediately after the posting, the violence was characterized as iconoclasm and anti-western arrogance by the people because it was the dominant ideology. People were taught that westerners were arrogant and that other countries disliked the fact that they believed so much in their self superiority. They also simply had the ideology and assumed that ISIS destroyed the objects because of religion, which prevented sculptures and monuments as icons.
        However, like Croteau argues, “we prefer to think of media texts as sites where cultural contests over meaning are waged” (Croteau 154). Because there is a cultural division in our society, we tend to have our own opinions on the ideology behind certain media. This is why the ISIS video has stirred a debate in the media and on social network sites such as Facebook and Twitter on what the intentions and purpose of both ISIS and the video are. Some users of these outlets had a “visceral reaction to the video and quickly shared the video to inform others of ISIS’s barbaric acts” whereas others don’t believe in the videos, claiming that the “reports lack video/photographic evidence” (Harmansah 172-173). Of course, the multiple interpretations of the video only support Croteau’s claim that “there is no guarantee that audiences will understand or interpret the meaning” of any content in any way (Croteau 154). This ties back to the whole idea of dominant ideology and how every culture has different dominant ideologies. Our culture divides us within society and allows us to form different opinions and beliefs on a variety of subject matters. 


















Works Cited
Croteau, David., and William Hoynes. Media/society: Industries, Images, and Audiences. Fifth 
        Edition. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, 2014. Print.
Harmansah, Ömür. “Harmanşah, Ömür; 2015. ‘ISIS, Heritage, and the Spectacles of Destruction 
        in the Global Media’ Near Eastern Archaeology 78.3: 170-177.” Near Eastern 
        Archaeology 78.3 (2015) 170-177, 
        www.academia.edu/15615683/Harman%C5%9Fah_%C3%96m%C3%BCr_2015._ 
        ISIS_Heritage_and_the_Spectacles_of_Destruction_in_the_Global_Media_Near_ 
        Eastern_Archaeology_78.3_170-177.