Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Chopra
COMM2
1 May 2019
The Danger of McDonald’s
        “I’m Lovin’ It.” We never questioned this phrase and what exactly we were supposed to love, as McDonald’s has embedded the slogan into our heads for as long as I can remember. Imagine getting picked up by your parents on a tiresome day from your kindergarten class. It had been 2 hours since lunch and your stomach is growling, hinting a need for a snack. Even if my parents didn’t say anything, I remember constantly asking my parents after class to take me to the happiest place on Earth where Ronald McDonald always appeared with that bright smile. Ordering the so-called “Happy Meal”, my brother and I would sit down and rip apart the plastic bag containing the provided toy. Then, we would trade each other the toys or ask my mother to buy us another one if the random toy didn’t live up to our satisfaction. Believe it or not, my mother would spoil us sometimes by buying us that extra meal. Little did I know the significance of that one tiny, useless toy. McDonald’s was the place we would go to on a playdate with our friends and the useless toy was something all children in our country craved for in our dreams, becoming a part of our culture. 
        Today, Mcdonald’s corporation is the world’s largest chain restaurant, “with 34,480 restaurants in 119 countries” (“Countries without McDonald’s). Yet with all the happy image that McDonald’s brings, they are still under constant criticism for their corrupt motivations and controversies created. Does Mcdonald’s truly make you happy or is there more to their slogan “I’m Lovin’ It”? The purpose of this paper serves as an exposure to the untrustworthy business behind McDonald’s. I will specifically introduce the role of globalization and media in relation to how the corporation has expanded into a multi-million oligopoly[1] through cultural differentiation. 
        To get things straight, McDonald’s is in the fast food industry which operates in an oligopoly market, where only a few food companies dominate. Corporations like McDonald’s only focus on one thing: profit (Lule, 90). They don’t actually care about your health or how you’re feeling and instead, lie to you through advertisements in order to maximize their profits. For instance, in 2014, McDonald’s openly admitted that “its posters look nothing like the real product” (Jager).   
The image above compares a poster of a McBurger advertised in the restaurant to a poster advertised outside in the public. McDonald’s states that for a poster advertised outside the restaurant, 
“there's a lot of time spent getting it looking picture-perfect. Just like a family portrait, we 
        want our burgers presented at their very best. So while the burgers seen in the images are 
        the same size with the same ingredients, it's important to note that they've been slowly 
        assembled, expertly lit and professionally photographed over a lengthy period of time. 
        When it comes to a burger we serve up in our restaurants, we want the choice ingredients 
        assembled and served up quickly to ensure it stays warm and ready for you to eat, which 
        is why you might find that it's not identical to the one you see in our advertisements.” 
        (Jager) 
It is evident that the two images of the burger look different when placed side by side, revealing how McDonald’s purposely alters their original product to appeal to the audience in a certain context. Unfortunately, dishonesty in advertisements work and are extremely effective. The next time you drive by a McDonald’s, you might think of buying the McBurger you saw on a poster advertised near your house. We are ultimately taking the bait as consumers.
        Now, what is even more scary about not just poster advertisements, but the media in general is that McDonald’s is using globalization and media to change the country’s culture. To understand this fully, let’s take a step away from McDonald’s first. 
During last summer, my mother and I went to Bangkok, Thailand for vacation. I recall the first thing my mother told me was to never trust the price of items in any Thailand shop because they are always raised higher. But what if they aren’t? Indeed, the American media has influenced us to think that we must always bargain for a lower price in Asian countries or we will not be satisfied. Recently, as I was scrolling through Facebook, I came across a post that directed me to an image of what seemed like tips to read before going to Asia.   
It is clear that through an American social media app such as Facebook, we are swayed and directed to form ideologies on certain countries. Thailand shop owners may be forced to raise their prices because of the way society views their shopping culture.
This brings us back to McDonald’s. Some argue that the outcome of international McDonald’s is cultural convergence, which suggests that “globalization will bring about a growing sameness of cultures” (Lule, 163). In other words, globalization will cause everything to Americanize. The presence of American corporations such as McDonald’s will influence other countries’ cultures, similar to our previous Facebook example. Our own American culture will not be affected because we are the ones expanding abroad. In this case, McDonald’s will engulf local culture “not only with American cuisine, but with American production routines, habits, and tastes” (Lule, 169). The popularity of the restaurant chain causes non-Americans to develop American customs and styles. However, can we truly believe that McDonald’s is powerful enough to alternate the roots of each country? I argue the opposite. Although the American culture is strong, the beliefs of other countries will endure the challenges of globalization, ultimately causing a change in our own culture.
One of the biggest mistakes McDonald’s made was when they put an advertisement through the media of Ronald McDonald alongside an Asian woman.
  

Many depicted the advertisement as Ronald McDonald stalking the Asian woman. Ronald was also seen to fade a little into the background, portraying an image of a ghost that scared individuals. Sometimes, “even the iconic Ronald, can be cruel.” No matter how good the ads are, “it’s the public who will decide in the end” (Schneider). From the Ad, it is apparent that it’s tough to persuade people of dissimilar cultures to understand what we Americans might think of as a friendly cartoon.
        Furthermore, by expanding themselves to other countries, McDonald’s corporation is associating themselves with a mix of different cultures. Ideally, they are bringing back a variety of values from countries instead of influencing them to Americanize. You might be asking, how and why? The answer lies within the idea of cultural differentiation, which suggests that “cultures are different, strong, and resilient” (Lule, 163). Through cultural differentiation, McDonald’s is forced to adapt to their local custom simply because of their desire to gain profit. The corporation has “implemented a series of marketing and media strategies” including the conversion of their original American culture to a more local concept (“Globalization...Commerce”). For example, the media below shows McDonald’s Shaka Shaka Chicken, found only in Japan. 
 McDonald’s Shaka Shaka Chicken 

Currently, Japan has the highest number of McDonald’s restaurants in the world: “roughly 3,600 branches nationwide and a planned 10,000 restaurants by 2020” (Smaili). This is due to their new marketing strategy of adapting to local specialties and showcasing regional specificities. Obviously, the Shaka Shaka Chicken is related to the food or something Japanese people commonly eat. McDonald’s media strategy not only makes the Japanese buy the product as a daily snack, but also opens up a whole new market for tourists. People from the United States visiting Japan will want to try products only McDonald’s in Japan have, demonstrating the irony of how the food chain restaurant has influenced a change in our own culture instead. Ultimately, in turn, the profits of McDonald’s corporation will increase.
        Another case follows the question: five to ten years ago, was McDonald’s ever thinking about cage-free eggs? Moreover, did we ever think that McDonald’s would have cage-free eggs? ISHN (Industrial Safety & Hygiene News) found that to keep up with constant societal improvements, the company is expected to and “wants to serve only cage-free eggs by 2025” (Johnson). McDonald’s new different culture of organic and real food transfigures the American lifestyle into something else. Growing up, my family always envisioned McDonald’s food to be unhealthy and junk food essentially. Part of our American childhood involved going to the fast food chain because it was where we can play and open toys. This is all about to change now as my child will grow up thinking McDonald’s is healthy and keeps you fit. 
        Overall, it is important to see how McDonald’s is a multi-million oligopoly that constantly modifies our American culture and lifestyle. As a society, we need to keep an eye on the corporation’s activities to ensure safety for both the company and ourselves due to the fact that the future is unpredictable. Their impact on our country is extremely powerful as they’ve already expanded and integrated themselves in the world through the global media and their persistent media strategies. After all, they only have one optimal goal: profit. 








































Works Cited
“Countries without McDonald's.” Fox News, FOX News Network, 
        www.foxnews.com/food-drink/countries-without-mcdonalds.
“Globalization And Impact Of Mcdonalds Globalization Commerce.” UKEssays.com, 
        www.ukessays.com/essays/commerce/globalization-and-impact-of-mcdonalds- 
        globalization-commerce-essay.php.
Jager, Chris. “McDonald's Finally Comes Clean On False Advertising (Kind Of).” Lifehacker 
        Australia, Lifehacker Australia, 21 Aug. 2014, 
        www.lifehacker.com.au/2014/08/mcdonalds-comes-clean-on-false-advertising/.
Johnson, Dave. “McDonald's® Goes for a Culture Change.” ISHN RSS, ISHN, 1 Sept. 2016, 
        www.ishn.com/articles/104797-mcdonalds-goes-for-a-culture-change.
Lule, Jack. Globalization and Media: Global Village of Babel. Lanham, Md: Rowman & 
        Littlefield, 2018. Print.
Smaili, Ines. “McDonald's in Japan - 35 Unique Menu Items | Compathy Magazine.” Compathy 
        Magazine （コンパシーマガジン）, 22 Mar. 2017, 
        en.compathy.net/magazine/2017/03/22/japan-mcdonalds/.
Schneider, Speider. “McMarketing: McDonald's Marketing And Advertising Hits And Pits | The 
        JotForm Blog.” Jotform Blog, JotForm Inc., 9 Jan. 2019, 
        www.jotform.com/blog/mcmarketing-mcdonalds-marketing-and-advertising-hits 
        -and-pits/.


________________
[1] Oligopoly is when a few companies control a product or service (Lule, 97)