Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Kratz
COMM12
2 November 2019
Plan for Visual Project
My overall plan was to find individual photos taken from my life that had a story on its own, but also connected together with other images as a whole. I should also note that I don’t have an Instagram account, so I planned to make an Instagram account solely based on my life: @storiesofevanslife (it is a public account so all can see the posts). Specifically, I wanted each person to see different meanings and stories on each post/slide. Thus I selected images of all sorts, with some having a clear background, some having a blurry view, and even some with text on them. 
        For instance, post number 1 was a picture of me taken when I was a toddler. My parents told me that I had an instant connection with basketball, so I wanted the viewers to get a sense of the connection between the toddler and the ball. The fact that we’re the same size and close, yet far apart signifies the growth and magicality of the sport. Furthermore, I wanted the audience to get the sense that this was where my journey began; this is my story. 
        The story itself is about how I grew up to love the game of basketball and winning first place, but met shock when I started experiencing losses. Getting 2nd place in a tournament towards the beginning was tough for me, but I remember my coach telling us to not focus on the scoreboard, but bonding and our love of the sport. As time went on, I started realizing that getting 2nd place instead of 1st was not the end of the world. It was more about the journey on how we got to 2nd place as a team, not winning.
        In terms of how I wanted to convey this, post number 5 was purposely made a little blurry to give the audience a sense of chaos. It was one of my first losses in my life and I remember crying and looking up at the scoreboard, which became blurry because of my tears. I wanted to show my grief and sorrow through the blurriness of the scoreboard and hopefully give the audience a feeling as if they are watching this through the lens of a crying child. 
        I would strategically post images next to each other with major differences. Once again, the post after post number 5 is extremely clear and focuses on myself and the birthday cake. I hope that this post shows the audience a feeling of hopelessness, worry, or even strength, not grief. These pictures also connected to each other such as the last post with the image of my trophy. Individually, it gives off the vibe of a hurt basketball player, with his left hand chopped off and the rusticness demonstrates the hard work put into getting 2nd place. Yet when tied to the other posts and the story, the trophy itself is a reminder of how important the journey to 2nd place was and allows us to reminisce of my journey through the other posts to get to where I am today. 
        Overall, my goal was to tell the viewers different sides of myself by giving them different stories of my life through the theme of basketball.