Why privacy should matter to me, and what I can do about it, and upload by the end of class.


Personally, I believe that privacy should matter to me because the private information defines who I am and represents control in my life, allowing me to create my personal space. In other words, if my privacy was targeted or damaged, it would affect me in a negative way directly. Without privacy, I wouldn’t have a place where I can process my own thoughts and ideas and feel humane. Furthermore, privacy limits the power of the government and keeps the government in check. Although I understand that the government can basically “see” what we do on the internet or social media and that technology usage is under surveillance all the time, there are still things that I do not post or put on social media because it is something I want to keep personal. Lastly, I feel like personal data is essential to so many decisions made about me, such as getting a license or a job and our personal and professional reputations. Because personal data affects nearly everything, including what messages and content we see on the internet, we are virtually helpless in today’s world without having knowledge of what data is being used, how it is being used, the ability to correct and amend it. Therefore, privacy should matter to me because it creates control over my own life. 


Similar to what I read in the New York Times article, I believe we can secure and enhance privacy by using less social media and not posting deep valuable information about yourself. This may seem difficult in our day and age, but over the past 2 years, I started using posting less and going on social media. The result? Nothing really changed overtime. Not only did I protect a lot of my personal information, I also was able to maintain my own personal space of freedom as well as having a sense of belonging in society. Yes, I admit, many people including my friends messaged me initially asking where I had gone. However, they understood the dangers of social media as well and respected my decision, so nowadays, I only use texting and calling as my source of communication (no snapchat, no instagram, no facebook). As a result, I feel that in order to protect my privacy, I can give up social media, which is something difficult for many people in my generation to do now.