Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Kratz
COMM12
3 October 2019
Reflection B
        For Part B, I chose Facebook once again as my social media application, specifically Facebook messenger. This was because I discovered the importance of Facebook in my life through Part A, so I thought it would be interesting if I chose it again for Part B. As expected, I noticed the same pattern of needing and getting an urge to use Facebook every 2 hours or so. Most importantly, there was a pattern of using the app to socialize with friends simply because I was bored or lonely. Through these patterns, I realized that having social media caused me to feel desperate in talking to someone because I had instant communication with my friends wherever I was. If I didn’t have Facebook messenger, my life would be plain.
        On that note, I noticed that my feelings were mostly negative. In my notes, I jotted down feeling disappointed, desperate, bored, curious, lonely, reminiscent, and even having a mental breakdown. Having these negative feelings was an extremely interesting discovery because it made me realize the impact of technology and social media. What would I do without Facebook messenger? More surprisingly, I found myself unable to not cheat. I had to use messenger. I had to cheat. At around 5:00 pm on Tuesday (10/1/2019), I was working on homework at my house (I commute this year). There was no way I could go to any of my friends instantly or talk to them physically because they were all on campus. Here’s when the problem arose. I needed help on my math homework and the resources online on my computer were of no use or support. There was no way I could contact them without using messenger, so therefore, I had to cheat. I had to cheat in order to ask my friends something educational and to get help on homework.
        What I realized from this is that social media has impacted humans so much that it is impossible not to use it. Our emotions play a role in this as well. Soon after I “cheated” using the app for homework help, my brother messaged me on Facebook messenger. Whenever my brother messaged me, it is usually something important, so I had to cheat once again. It was difficult to avoid cheating when someone important contacted me because I was physically, mentally, and emotionally attached to that person. As a result, I further cheated that night when my best friend from highschool messaged me that night. 
        All in all, it is our human emotion and bond that truly prevent us from possible getting through a day without using our social media applications. And I have to say, this experiment was such a challenge.