Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Chopra
COMM2
23 April 2019
Reflection on Observations in New Media and Old Media
        During the past three-day weekend, I took my brother down to UC Irvine for New Student Day. With the assignment in mind, I thought the event would be a perfect place to observe people’s interaction with new and old media. It was most noticeable that both the students and parents were using new media with their phones in all locations. While waiting in line to go on campus tours and housing demonstrations, the students and their parents would be on their phones as a way to kill time because they were perhaps bored. What’s funny about this was that they completely ignored the main point of New Student Day. Students were supposed to experience the school culture and look around with their parents to see if the college was a right fit. However, they weren’t discussing their perspectives of UC Irvine with their parents, revealing the power of new media. The addiction to social media and the convenience to access new media has not only allowed the students and parents to be anti-social, but also take away their original intentions and purpose of coming. Compared to the new media, old media such as newspapers are less convenient, so they are less of a distraction and not often used. Most importantly, it was interesting how the parents or students would take pictures on the phone to capture significant memories of their lives and specifically, to post on their social media. Yet it was ironic how the students weren’t actually having as much fun as the pictures implied, indicating the dangers of new media and how there can be implicit meanings that are hidden behind the lens.
        I must say that old media is similar in that it also creates a wall between communication and socialization. On UC Irvine’s campus, there are multiple Starbucks spread around. I decided to visit them, hoping to find and make some observations on old media. Immediately, I noted similarities in my observations to how people were on their phones while waiting for their coffee. But I also found it surprisingly how there were more people of old age, which I guessed were above the age of 60, than the younger age group I saw outside on the campus. Precisely, the people guessed to be above the age of 60 used old media instead of new media: newspapers over phones. They sat with their cup of coffee and silently read their copy of the newspaper. From this, I found two fascinating things. The first was how old media targets an older age group while new media is more widely spread among the younger generation. The second was how regardless of new or old media, the presence of media blocks people from communicating and socializing. Both groups of people were not willing to engage in activities and talk to others on New Student Day because they were too focused on media and persuaded to prioritize the media as their number one purpose.