Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Kratz
COMM12
3 November 2019
Reflection
        I decided to go with option 1, creating a story through individual instagram posts (a total of 20) instead of the how-to-option. Originally, my plan was to put a bunch of pictures together to create one single story that made sense. However, I realized that each individual picture had to stand alone. In other words, it had to mean something by itself, not just be a part of some large picture or story. As a result, my plan shifted into finding images with the theme of basketball, but not necessarily connecting to each other at first glance. 
        The reason why I chose basketball is because it is a big part of me and my life. My family bonded over watching basketball and my father introduced me to the sport ever since I was 5 years old. Since then, I have coached, played, and watched the sport and I’ve grown to love it. Specifically, the goal and main objective of this visual project was an attempt to show who I am as an individual and also teach others the lesson that being number 2 is definitely ok as long as we realize the importance of the journey. 
As basketball has been a huge part in shaping the individual who I am today, I wanted to deliver the same feeling I felt to the audience through every image or at least some part of the feeling I received during the time the image was taken. I found this to be challenging initially because I didn’t know where to start. There were many images of my basketball life, but I didn’t know which ones to choose, so I first chose ones that could make an overall story together. But as stated earlier, the pictures weren’t significant one its own, so I had to forgo my plan and attempt a different approach. 
My approach was to simply pick the 20 pictures I liked the most, which meant that they had to have some sort of different appeal. Each one of the images I chose were distinct and had multiple meanings to me, but at the same also helped shape the person I am today, which became the common theme and storyline: how have these images affected my life all together. Moreover, I had challenges cropping the images to the appropriate size to posting on instagram, so I had to change plans once again and choose different images. Other than these challenges, I believe that the project itself went really smooth. It was just a matter of choosing the right meaningful images and putting them in the right order.
If I were to do this project again with the same mindset, I would definitely change my mentality in the beginning by asking myself what I want to show, not what is the easy route to creating a story. This way, I wouldn’t spend so much of my time changing plans and directly focus on the objective. I would also make sure ahead of time to have more than 20 images ready to go incase the photos don’t fit within the frame of instagram. Overall, I think to just simply have fun with the visual project and take time to show your story and true colors.