Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Kratz
COMM12
2 October 2019
Reflection A
        The social media I chose for Part A was Facebook, including Facebook messenger and all the utilities inside Facebook. I have been a long user of Facebook and still use it everyday, but not as often now. As I recorded what I was doing on the app from 7:45 am-7:45 pm on Wednesday (10/2/2019), I noticed a pattern that I tend to use the social media app to keep myself occupied. Whenever I was bored or had freetime, Facebook was always there, sitting in my phone and ready to be used. Therefore, it fell intriguing to open it. Also, it was surprising to see my usage of Facebook being spread across the day, not at one specific time. It was further interesting to see the pattern of how once every two hours or so, I had to be checking Facebook or use Facebook messenger. Facebook had become embedded in my life without me even noticing it. 
        When looking at the feelings I wrote down before and after using the social media, none of my feelings were the same after I used Facebook. For instance, when I woke up at 7:45 am to get ready for class, I was feeling tired and felt half asleep. However, when I stopped using Facebook at 8:30 am, I noted my feeling down as feeling a sense of loneliness after seeing what others had posted. From this, I thought of two things immediately. First, it was extremely significant that I used Facebook the instant I woke up. This taught me that I was an addict of social media and how scary social media has become: apps that essentially control your daily lives. Second, like the article we read for class, social media has caused us, students, to feel lonely and depressed. When we see our friends having a great time and posting exciting events on Facebook, we feel like we are excluded. There’s that aspect of hiding loneliness as well. At 9:00 am in my notes, I wrote that I was feeling occupied on my way to class by using Facebook. Yet when I stopped using the app 15 minutes later, I jotted down relief as my current feeling. As a result, it was uncomfortable, but helpful to see that I was indeed lonely during the walking time to class because I wanted someone to talk to. 
        From this, it is evident that many students around me at SCU are most likely experiencing the same thing. We are all on our phones when we’re walking from class to class and it shows how we’re vulnerable to social media and loneliness as students. People in our generation cannot go through a day alone and apps such as Facebook help us cope with that by instantly connecting us with our friends, regardless of how far away they are. That being said, there are positives that I found while using Facebook too. From 6:48 pm to 7:10 pm. I noted down my feelings as excited and energized, before and after respectively. Because I was able to talk to my friends who are a long distance away, I felt a positive energy which cheered me up and gave me energy. 
        Through this, I believe that Facebook is ultimately an app that plays with our emotions as human beings. We experience all these different emotions while using social media and are affected by it. Facebook is both dangerous and beneficial.