Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Chopra
COMM2
13 May 2019
Response Paper on Minority Report
        In the film, Minority Report, director Steven Spielberg portrays the story of our world having no crimes and murders because we have created technology that enables us to predict murders before they occur. As a result, the PreCrime police station is able to stop murderers before they act. Through media, the audience is able to get a sense of just how powerful technological innovations and media itself can be. However, when Chief John Anderton is accused of future murder, there comes the question of how accurate the Precogs who previsualize the crimes are. More importantly, is the capturing of those criminals justified if they actually haven’t committed any crime? With this thought in mind, Minority Report ultimately reveals two big ideas, the first being how although technology and media are constantly improving to make our lives easier, there are always flaws and the second being how corporate greed and profit off of technological inventions and media causes corruption among our society and changes the way people act. All in all, globalization is a game changer to our lives.
        Spielberg depicts the future by focusing on a society in which law enforcement, as well as many other elements of society and technology, have become much more sophisticated by 2054. For instance, people have their irises scanned wherever they go for the government to track them. The eye scan is further used as a way to advertise to the specific individual. We see this when Anderton enters the Gap store, with hologram salespeople speaking directly to each potential customer, referencing their purchase histories. This image of the future is purely fantastical, but it also seeks to predict the ways that people will be more heavily surveilled as technology advances. 
Additionally, the future is shown to make our lives easier and better, as seen by the new road system where people no longer need to drive, a man reading a paper that updates by itself as soon as news comes in, and PreCrime. Yet Anderton eventually points out the flaw to the program in that although PreCrime is working efficiently to save many lives and stop murders from happening, the director and founder, Lamar Burgess, had to murder someone in order begin everything. Another flaw in the system includes false predictions. Sometimes, the main Precog, Agatha, predicts a possible alternate future. The chances of this are very low, but it is still a major flaw and could ruin the system’s credibility, which is why it is kept a secret to the public. Therefore, even the most advanced and perfect technology has flaws. Flaws are inevitable.
In some ways, the image of advertising and identification in Minority Report bears some resemblance to the personalized ads that we now experience on the internet or social media. As stated earlier, companies are hiding their corrupt intentions behind widely distributed media, which brings us to the second idea of the film on profit. Towards the beginning Minority Report, Lamar Burgess seems like a kind and ethical leader and mentor, until it is revealed that he is the one behind the death of Anne Lively, Agatha's mother. We learn that Burgess killed Anne Lively because he knew that her desire to connect with her Precog daughter might put the whole system of PreCrime in jeopardy. Thus, Burgess shows that he is more concerned with the legacy and reputation of PreCrime than he is with honesty and straightforwardness. He cares only for his own legacy as the director of the PreCrime program, and does not seem to care about the individuals who must wrongfully suffer along the way. In relation, it is a fact that corporations prioritize systems over people. Why? Because corporations only care about increasing profit and gaining more money. Ultimately, Burgess kills himself due to the fact that he cannot accept PreCrime’s flaw. That single flaw could hinder the program’s profit, overall demonstrating how to Burgess, profit is always greater than lives.