Chou 
Evan Chou
Professor Chopra
COMM2
5 April 2019
US Media and Global Media
        Over the past decade, social media networks, specifically Facebook, have continued to grow, taking over the world economy and changing the global media system. Facebook has created surplus jobs, raised the employment rate globally, boosted the U.S. economy, and spread informative global news around the world. People of all race, gender, and nationality from any location can understand and view events that are happening on the other side of the country with a single touch. Although Facebook has generated many positive benefits to mankind, the social network has also negatively impacted the world by dominating the global media system, ultimately presenting their perspectives on global events and hiding certain information to deceive the public. 
        Today, more than one-third of the human population get their news from Facebook. But just how accurate and true are these news? A joint statement from more than 60 conservatives stated that "Social media censorship and online restriction of conservatives and their organizations have reached a crisis level” (Guynn). The fact that American media organizations reflect global events with biased views against conservatives is a huge problem because social media is altering the way we view the world and changing our personal beliefs. 
        One example of Facebook fake news can be seen from the anti-Hillary Clinton story from the Denver Guardian, with the title “FBI AGENT SUSPECTED IN HILLARY EMAIL LEAKS FOUND DEAD IN APPARENT MURDER-SUICIDE.” The news was exposed false and fake, as “everything about the article was made up, from the city where the crime supposedly occurred (there is no Walkerville, Maryland), to the quote from Walkerville Police Chief Pat Frederick” (Grenoble). The news was evidently targeting the Democratic Party and indicated that Facebook had a poor perspective towards conservatives. Yet because Facebook posted the article, a majority of the global Facebook users believed the fake news, revealing the dangers and effect of American media. 
        Correspondingly, the media in other countries influence the U.S. negatively by providing false news about the nation as well. For instance, when Upton Sinclair decided to run in the California gubernatorial election as part of the End Poverty in California movement (EPIC), Russia promoted lies and disinformation about EPIC through the media (Zenko). Also, clips with actors who recited scripted lines containing falsehoods about the EPIC movement were spread in order to change the American voters’ opinions and end Sinclair’s chances of being elected. The Russian media was able to alter the views and perspective of the Californians because the “disinformation simply became a normal and tolerated part of U.S. elections” (Zenko). This situation demonstrates the power of the media not only in the U.S., but in other countries as well. Media in all countries is able to influence decisions, perspectives of people, and events in the world, whether positively or negatively. 








Works Cited
Grenoble, Ryan. “Here Are Some Of Those Fake News Stories That Mark Zuckerberg Isn't 
        Worried About.” HuffPost, HuffPost, 16 Nov. 2016, 
        www.huffpost.com/entry/facebook-fake-news-stories-zuckerberg_n_5829f34ee4b0c4b 
        63b0da2ea.
Guynn, Jessica. “Is Facebook Too Liberal? It Pledges to Investigate Charges It's Biased against 
        Conservatives.” USA Today, Gannett Satellite Information Network, 3 May 2018, 
        www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2018/05/03/facebook-pledges-investigate-charges 
        -bias-against-conservatives/574505002/.   
Zenko, Micah. “The Problem Isn't Fake News From Russia. It's Us.” Foreign Policy, Foreign 
        Policy, 3 Oct. 2018, 
        foreignpolicy.com/2018/10/03/the-problem-isnt-fake-news-from-russia-its-us/.